so today I wanted to talk to you about
letting go of our fears as painters
artists we always have to overcome
emotional fears fear of expressing
ourselves fear of being vulnerable we're
making yourself vulnerable fear of being
criticized fear of looking at something
awful that came out of your hand so one
way that I do it to overcome these fears
have been doing this in about 20 years
get myself a stack of cheap paper and
that helps too if you know that you
haven't spent a fortune that you can
just go for it who cares it's like 500
sheets for ten dollars and whatever and
office depot um pastels get expensive
cheap whatever you can afford and
doesn't have to be pastels for the
charcoal and then just start drawing
start painting just do lines do happy
face and stick figures whatever you feel
like at the moment and work quickly
tribal 10 or 20 of these
this helps you to gain confidence or my
time if you do this every day slowly but
surely you'll start to feel more
confident and in those 10 10 or 20
paintings that you have or drawings
there's always going to be two or three
that are beautiful and then the rest you
can hide in a closet and you never have
to look at them again and you know the
scariest thing about fear is not knowing
exactly what it is what is it that
you're scared of sold by doing this you
know paintings 10 or 15 or 20 or my key
symptoms I've done 50 or 60 and I've
given myself frozen shoulder right enter
in my shoulder so I can't really do that
me but anyway by by doing a lot overcome
some of the fears sure enough there's
always another demon around the corner
but let's deal with him another time so
anyway I hope this is
a little helpful and if you have any
questions you can ask me in the comments
all try to answer everyone thank you bye
okay so let me show you what I mean
together we're going to conquer our
fears and so let's do it together just
get yourself in expensive paper even
printer paper if it lets all you've got
I find that the cheaper the paper the
less fear because you're not inhibited
by costs you know so it doesn't matter
if it's crap because it's a penny a
sheet of paper and then just go for it
this is charcoal and just start doing
lines scribbles faces and just keep
going through 10 20 30 1715 however you
feel whatever you're in the mood for
write something
make it journal drawing who cares just
by doing this you are releasing the
monster you're saying Bob I I'm not
scared of you can use colors doesn't
matter look at that it's just scribbles
and lines but this is great great
practice and if you do this every day
you're bound to see one in the full
results
little stick guys
mama oh go away fear lines are great
because you are learning to create a
composition as well on the paper I did
pure abstract for many years so
for me abstract is very easy and natural
so let's see how many are down 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8
few more
I like big teeth expressive
sophomore it's hard lines who cares were
just practicing matter you can't I piece
of the closet man just ever look and
criticize no criticizing oops
and I always feel like energized
afterwards I feel like I went to and did
12 laps in the pool squiggles go ahead
whatever comes out doesn't matter
you
have fun with different colors
and of course people say oh that every
ugly so don't show anyone a lot of times
people who think that looks like
something a kid that they can't draw at
all criticizing is a lot easier than
doing it just like it's easy for us to
criticize when someone can't sing but if
we ourselves can see then we shouldn't
be criticizing someone else who's got
the courage to try okay I do 20 of these
or 30 but if you go overboard they're me
you'll feel tired but that's okay
complished something so I hope this was
a little bit of help do this every day
and goodbye fear